Monitoring ensures that our applications are running in the rightway by following below:
logs
Metrics
Tracing 
Audits

Amazon Cloud Watch:
                                    CLOUD WATCH METRICS:
                    provides metrics for every services in AWS
                    Metric is a Variable in monitor.(CPU Utilization, networkin, etc)
                    Metrics belongs to namespaces
                    Dimension is an Attribute of metric(instance id, environment, etc)
                    upto 10 Dimensions per metric
                    Metrics Have timestamps
                    Can create cloudwatch Dashboard of metrics
                    Can create cloud watch custom metrics

    Cloud Watch metric Streams:
        Continuously stream cloud watch metrics to a Destination of your choice with near real-time delivery and low latency:

           a. Amazon Kinesis Datafirehose(And its destinations)
           b. 3rd party service providers: Datadog, Dynatrace, New relic, Splunk, Sumo Logic...etc

            a.Amazon Kinesis Datafirehose:
                                                    cloudWatch Metrics
                                                            | (stream near real time)
                                                    Kinesis Data firehose
                                                            |(Send Data to)
                |---------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------|  
            Amazon S3                           Amazon Redshift                             Amazon Opensearch
                |                     (To Have Data Warehousing for the metrics)     (To build Dashboard and Do analytics)
             Athena
    (Used to Analyse data in s3)

        option to filter metrics to only stream a subset of them to kinesis



                                                CLOUD WATCH LOGS
                        Log Groups: Usually Represents an Application(Aribitary Name)
                        Log Streams: instances with in an Application,logfiles, containers
                        can define Log expiration policies(never expire, 30 days,etc):
                        Cloud Watch logs can send Logs to:
                            Amazon s3(exports)
                            Kinesis data streams
                            kinesis Data firehose
                            AWS Lambda
                            ElasticSearch

        What Type of logs Can go into cloud watch logs?(Sources)
        We can send logs using
                1. SDK, Cloudwatch logs Agent(Deprecated), Cloudwatch Unified agent(in use)
                2. Elastic Beanstalk: which collects logs directly from Application
                3. ECS: Collects logs directly from containers
                4. AWS Lambda: Collects logs from functions themselves.
                5. VPC Flow Logs: sends logs of Vpc Specific metadata from network traffic.
                6. API gateway will send all the requests made to the api gateway into cloudwatch logs
                7. Cloud trail will send logs based on a filter.
                8. Route 53: send DNS Queries logs to cloud watch logs


        CLoud Watch logs, metric filter and insights:
            Cloudwatch logs can use filter expressions:
                For example: To find a specific ip inside a log
                            or we can see the no of occurances of "ERROR" in your logs.
                And the above Metric filters or filter expressions can be used to trigger cloud watch Alarms


            CloudWatch log insights:
                Used to Query logs and add queries to the cloudwatch DashBoards 
